
Page
1
of 8
HW11: Graphic Design
Warm up due Friday at 11:59pm (grace period until 8am the following day)
Main due Wednesday at 1pm (or otherwise before your section starts) on Courseworks (no
grace period – feedback will be given in class)
Note: if your TA feedback meetings are not Wednesdays 1-2:30, then you may have slightly
different deadlines. Please turn in assignments according to instructions given by your TA.
Warm-up:
1. Group.
o Feedback. What feedback did you get from your TA on your technical prototype?
§ What’s something good about your technical prototype from HW10?
§ What are the things your TA said you still need to work on with regard to
implementing a fully functional technical prototype?
o Job assignments.
§ Some group members may focus on graphic design and some may focus
on continuing technical implementation. List the roles you plan to have
and the names of the people assigned to them.
§ If you’re a solo group, list what technical implementation you plan to do
this week.
2. Individual:
o Your turn to give UI feedback!
§ Try the website to make a joke based on an image you like
• https://www.crackd.ai/
§ We recommend you make an account. If you do, you have to use a
barnard.edu or Columbia.edu email address
§ You can use select an existing image or upload your own that you want to
“crack”
§ For whatever image you make a joke for,
• Post the screenshot to the #crackd channel on UI Design Slack (or
DM it to Michael Roger on Slack, if you don’t want to post it to
everyone).
§ Write up: Give feedback on the UI and experience.
• Show us the screenshot to Courseworks
• What’s one thing that went well about the UI?
• What’s one thing that could be better about the UI?
• Were you able to find something you found amusing?
o Extra credit (1pt): Share your image outside of this class!
§ Share the image + generated caption on something: Instagram, Twitter,
email, Sidechat, 4chan, a Columbia Spectator op-ed, etc.
§ Take a screenshot of the image + generated caption that you posted and
upload to Courseworks in “HW 11 Extra Credit” assignment
§ If you have feedback on the sharing process, we’d love to know! Just
write it in the HW 11 Extra credit doc.
Screenshot example (that you’ll need to post on the class #crackd channel)
Extra credit screenshot examples (left: Sidechat, right: Instagram):
What to turn in:
• A PDF with the answers to all the questions.
• Submit the extra credit separately (if you are submitting it)
Although the group work can done collectively, everyone in the group must turn in the work
individually. (You may turn in identical work for group portions of the assignment)
Main Assignment
In this assignment you will design the information hierarchy and color for the 4-5 most
important types of screens. This probably includes:
1. Home screen
2. One learning screen
3. One quiz screen
4. The final quiz feedback screen
5. (If you have it) A screen that transitions between learning and quiz
The designs should be done in Google Slides.
You should turn in PDFs of those designs and well as PDFs of those designs with the annotations
we ask for in problems #1 and #2.
Lastly, we ask you to implement the design of at least one of your slides in your code base.
(Probably the home page, but it’s up to you).
Your design and implementation must include a nav bar.
1. Information Hierarchy Design (including Conceptual groups)
Create the information hierarchy design for the 4-5 most important screens in slides.
Annotate the design as follows:
A. Conceptual groups should be shown in red circles
B. Beside each group, use red text to annotate what the concept behind each group is.
C. The text should have a number that indicates what order the user is intended to see it
in.
D. Within each group, use blue to outline or underline the most important piece of
information.
Here are examples from class slides:
Conceptual groups and concept annotation:
Annotation of important information should be a blue underline or box.
Here’s another example of the most important information annotated in blue, this time for the
improved design.
2. Color Design
Colors design should be annotated with the
• base color,
• accent color (point to multiple places if applicable),
• light grey
• dark grey.
If you don’t have light and dark greys contact your TA. It might be okay to have only one grey
and your TA can confirm, but if you’re missing both greys, you probably have some graphic
design problems – without use of greys the colors on an interface can get very saturated very
quickly. This might be okay, but it might not be. Just ask your TA.
Turn in annotation of all the 4-5 most important screens
3. Font
Pick one important piece of text (such as the title of the webpage) and make a choice about
what font to use. Justify why. Related the choice back to the meaning, purpose, or use of the
site. At the very least decide if the font should be serif or sans-serif, based on the principles
mentioned in class (there was an entire lecture on fonts, and I gave a recap of that discussion
on lecture 4/15)
In your write up, include a picture of the font, and describe why.
For example:
For the title of my site (“Lipreading”) I picked a font-face that looks like typewriter letters.
Because the website is about reading, there is a conceptual connection to reading/writing.
Typewriter fonts capture that.
4. Technical Implementation of the design
Implement the design of at least one of the screens you designed in the previous problem.
Turn in a screenshot of the technical implementation.
What to turn in:
• Group. A PDF with a list of the contributions of each group member. It’s okay if this
deviated from what you planned in the warm up.
• Group. A PDF of your 4-5 slides with the graphic design annotation on them.
• Group. A PDF of your 4-5 slides with the color annotation on them.
• Group. A PDF with your answer to the font design question.
• Group. A PDF of a screenshot of the implementation of the graphic design for at least
one screen.
